



CSUF Botnet Team                                           R. Kretschmar
Internet-Draft                                                      CSUF
Expires: April 16, 2019                                 October 13, 2018


                        A Simple Botnet Protocol
                         draft-simple-botnet-01

Abstract

   This is the RFC for a simple protocol that our botnet is going to
   use.  The two main sections will be the protocol for the single
   Command and Control (C&C) server, and then the protocol that the
   individual "client"-side bots will operate with.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on April 16, 2019.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2018 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.





Kretschmar               Expires April 16, 2019                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft          A Simple Botnet Protocol            October 2018


1.  Introduction

   To help showcase our presentation of "The Anatomy of a Botnet", we
   must first create a botnet including a working protocol that the will
   be a unified language that our Command and Control server and our
   client bots can talk to each other with.  This is important as any
   protocol is to achieve a proof of concept that will be the
   underpinning of this project.  TODO: Add more here.

2.  Command and Control Server Protocol

   This is where I will talk about the Command and Control server as a
   whole.

2.1.  Infection Handling

   The first logical thing a C&C server should do is infect a new system
   -- effectively enrolling it into our botnet.  Infection handling can
   happen many different ways depending on what the creator of the
   botnet wants to accpomlish.  Our system, since simple, will try to
   infect a system by copying over the bot code to the victims machine.
   It will then wait one minute (60 seconds) for a HELO_C reply.  TODO:
   Flesh out.

3.  Bot Client Protocol

   This is where I will talk about the client-side bots as a whole.

3.1.  The HELO_C Message

   The bot will send the HELO_C message to the C&C server when it is
   done infecting a victim's computer and ready to take commands.  This
   will have the server put the IP address in the master list of active
   bots that the server currently knows about.  TODO: Flesh out more.

Author's Address

   Robert J. Kretschmar III
   California State University, Fullerton

   Email: armersuender@csu.fullerton.edu










Kretschmar               Expires April 16, 2019                 [Page 2]
